external/ippcp_internal/README.md, before:

The ippcp library is built based on the Open Source project ipp-crypto:
   * https://github.com/intel/ipp-crypto/
   * tag: [ippcp_2021.3](https://github.com/intel/ipp-crypto/tree/ippcp_2021.3)

In order to build your own IPP crypto, please follow below steps:
1. Download the prebuilt mitigation tools package `as.ld.objdump.{ver}.tar.gz` from [01.org](https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/latest/linux-latest/), extract the package and copy the tools to `/usr/local/bin`.
2. Read the ipp-crypto README to prepare your build environment.
3. Make sure ipp-crypto source code are prepared.
4. Build the target ippcp library with the prepared Makefile:
   a. Build the target ippcp library with All-Loads-Mitigation:
      $ make MITIGATION-CVE-2020-0551=LOAD
   b. Build the target ippcp library with Branch-Mitigation:
      $ make MITIGATION-CVE-2020-0551=CF
   c. Build the target ippcp library with No-Mitigation:
      $ make
The built-out static library `libippcp.a` and header files will be copied into the right place.
Remember to "make clean" before switching the build.

For IPP crypto reproducible build, please follow the instructions in [reproducibility README.md](../../linux/reproducibility/README.md) to reproduce the prebuilt IPP crypto.

Commit message:

Linux 2.20 Open Source Gold Release
Supported the AEX (Asynchronous Enclave Exit) Notify feature.
Supported Mbed-TLS Cryptography library (excluding SSL/TLS portion) in Enclave.
Applied patches to OpenSSL 1.1.1t, fixed CVE-2023-1255, CVE-2023-0465 and
  CVE-2023-0466.
Upgraded to Intel(R) Integrated Performance Primitives (IPP) Cryptography
  library version 2021.7.
Upgraded Intel SGX Quote Verification Enclave to integrate updated SgxSSL.
Enhanced the attestation local cache functionality by giving users the option
  to provide their own cache file.
Enabled QPL/QCNL log in DCAP samples.
Fixed bugs.

Signed-off-by: Li, Xun <xun.li@intel.com>

external/ippcp_internal/README.md, after:

The ippcp library is built based on the IPP Cryptography open source project:
   * https://github.com/intel/ipp-crypto/
   * tag: [ippcp_2021.7](https://github.com/intel/ipp-crypto/tree/ippcp_2021.7)

In order to build your own IPP crypto, please follow below steps:
1. Download the prebuilt mitigation tools package `as.ld.objdump.{ver}.tar.gz` from [01.org](https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/latest/linux-latest/), extract the package and copy the tools to `/usr/local/bin`.
2. Read the ipp-crypto README to prepare your build environment.
3. Make sure ipp-crypto source code is prepared.
4. Build the target ippcp library with the prepared Makefile:
    1. Build the target ippcp library with All-Loads-Mitigation:
       $ make MITIGATION-CVE-2020-0551=LOAD
    2. Build the target ippcp library with Branch-Mitigation:
       $ make MITIGATION-CVE-2020-0551=CF
    3. Build the target ippcp library with No-Mitigation:
       $ make
The built static library `libippcp.a` and header files will be copied into the right place.
Remember to "make clean" before switching the build.

For the IPP crypto reproducible build, please follow the instructions in [reproducibility README.md](../../linux/reproducibility/README.md) to reproduce the prebuilt IPP crypto.

These are the steps to build the IPP Crypto-based dispatcher code after you built the library:
1. `cd ./ipp-crypto/tools/ipp_custom_library_tool_python`
2. `awk -F\, '/IPPAPI\(/ {print $2}' ../../../inc/ippcp.h | awk '{print $1}' >functions.txt`
3. `python3 main.py -c -g -p ./ -ff functions.txt -arch intel64 -d sse42 avx2 avx512ifma -root ../../build/.build/RELEASE/ --prefix sgx_disp_`
`Intel(R) Custom Library Tool console version is on...`
`Current package: Intel(R) Integrated Performance Primitives Cryptography Version 2021.7.0 (11.5 )`
`Generation completed!`
4. `./build_custom_library_intel64.sh`
`Build completed!`
5. `cp custom_dispatcher/intel64/* ../../../../../sdk/tlibcrypto/ipp/ipp_disp/intel64/`
