linux/reproducibility/ae_reproducibility_verifier/README.md, before:

Verify Intel(R) Prebuilt AE Reproducibility:
================================
---------

## Purpose
---
Since Intel(R) prebuilt AEs have been signed by Intel's private key, it's hard to verify AE reproduciblity by comparing your local AE builds with Intel AEs using "diff" command.  
So this doc will give an approach using your local AE builds to verify Intel(R) prebuilt AEs are:

* Built using same code and toolsets that being opensourced
* Signed using same config.xml that being opensourced


## Verify AE reproducibility
---
### Prequisites:
* <a id="materials">Prepare below 4 materials</a>

 1. intel_signed_ae:  
 It is the Intel(R) prebuilt AE to be verified, and can be downloaded from (https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/latest/intel-latest/)
 2. user_build_unsigned_ae:   
 The unsigned AE is built by yourself in an SGX docker container. You can follow the [reproducibility README.md](../README.md) to build all AEs in a container.
 3. user_private_key:  
 This private key is generated by yourself for signing user_build_unsigned_ae.
 4. intel_ae_config_xml:  
 It is the opensource enclave config.xml of Intel(R) prebuilt AE, and can be downloaded from Intel(R) SGX GitHub repo.


* Ensure Intel(R) SGX SDK is installed(https://github.com/intel/linux-sgx#install-the-intelr-sgx-sdk), and your environment is set:
    ```
    $ source ${sgx-sdk-install-path}/environment
    ```

### Detailed Steps:
You can either verify by the provided automated scripts [*reproducibility_verifier.sh*](reproducibility_verifier.sh), or by manual.

#### 1. Verify by running automated scripts (Recommended)
To see the usage, you can directly run *`$./reproducibility_verifier.sh`* without any arguments.   
To do verification, please follow below usage.  

##### Usage:
```
$ ./reproducibility_verifier.sh intel_signed_ae user_build_unsiged_ae user_private_key intel_ae_config_xml
```
##### Parameters:
The script MUST take four parameters in above order. For the parameters, please see the description [Prequisites: Prepare below 4 materials](#materials)

##### Outputs:
If the verification succeeds, you will see below info in command line window:

```
$ ./reproducibility_verifier.sh intel_signed_ae user_build_unsiged_ae user_private_key intel_ae_config_xml
...
Reproducibility Verification PASSED!

```
If the verification fails, you will see below info in command line window:

```
$ ./reproducibility_verifier.sh intel_signed_ae user_build_unsiged_ae user_private_key intel_ae_config_xml
...
Reproducibility Verification FAILED!
Please find the diff contents in output/metadata_diff.txt
```

Meanwhile, you can find the extracted intel & user metadata to be compared in  *./output/intel_metadata.txt* and *./output/user_metadata.txt*. 

#### 2. Verify by manual
1) Dump the whole enclave_metadata of intel_signed_ae, and then extract partial enclave_metadata to "intel_metadata.txt" excluding below fields:  
    "enclave_css.header.date, enclave_css.enclave_css.key.modulus, enclave_css.key.exponent, enclave_css.key.signature, enclave_css.buffer.q1, enclave_css.buffer.q2"

  ```
    # dump metadata
    $ {SGX_SDK}/bin/x64/sgx_sign dump -enclave intel_signed_ae -dumpfile intel_metadata_orig.txt
    
    # extract metadata
    $ sed -n '/metadata->magic_num/,/metadata->enclave_css.header.module_vendor/p;/metadata->enclave_css.header.header2/,/metadata->enclave_css.header.hw_version/p;/metadata->enclave_css.body.misc_select/,/metadata->enclave_css.body.isv_svn/p;' intel_metadata_orig.txt > intel_metadata.txt
  ```
2) Sign user_build_unsiged_ae with user_private_key and intel_ae_config_xml, and generate user_signed_ae.
  ```
    $ {SGX_SDK}/bin/x64/sgx_sign sign -enclave user_build_unsigned_ae -key user_private_key -config intel_ae_config_xml -out user_signed_ae
  ```
3) Dump the whole enclave_metadata of user_signed_a, and then extract partial enclave_metadata to "user_metadata.txt" excluding below fields:  
    "enclave_css.header.date, enclave_css.enclave_css.key.modulus, enclave_css.key.exponent, enclave_css.key.signature, enclave_css.buffer.q1, enclave_css.buffer.q2"


  ```
    # dump metadata
    $ {SGX_SDK}/bin/x64/sgx_sign dump -enclave intel_signed_ae -dumpfile intel_metadata_orig.txt
    
    # extract metadata
    $ sed -n '/metadata->magic_num/,/metadata->enclave_css.header.module_vendor/p;/metadata->enclave_css.header.header2/,/metadata->enclave_css.header.hw_version/p;/metadata->enclave_css.body.misc_select/,/metadata->enclave_css.body.isv_svn/p;' user_metadata_orig.txt > user_metadata.txt
  ```
4) Compare the content of intel_metadata.txt and user_metadata.txt. If the result is same, then the verification succeeds; otherwise, the verification fails.

```
    $ diff intel_metadata.txt user_metadata.txt
```

Commit message:

Update repo (#1)
* Fix links to downloads for linux-latest

* Add links to dcap pre-built

* Update download_prebuilt.sh

Signed-off-by: Zhang Lili Z <lili.z.zhang@intel.com>

* Fix typo: unsiged -> unsigned (#605)

Fix typo: unsiged -> unsigned in AE reproducibility verification steps.

Signed-off-by: Zhang Lili Z <lili.z.zhang@intel.com>

* Fix path for download_prebuilt.sh (#635)

Remove the unnecessary '/'

* Add table of contents to README (#609)

Also adjusted indentation for the subsections in
section *Install the Intel(R) SGX PSW*.

* Ignore downloaded files and generated code dir (#610)

* Set external to true for aesmd-socket volume

Fixes #657

Signed-off-by: Sylvain Bellemare <sbellem@gmail.com>

* Linux 2.13 Open Source Gold Release

Added more logs in PSW components for identifying issues.
Upgraded OpenSSL and SgxSSL to latest version 1.1.1i in DCAP components.
Added data base migration support in PCCS.
Fixed bugs.

Signed-off-by: Li, Xun <xun.li@intel.com>

Co-authored-by: Sylvain Bellemare <sbellem@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: lzha101 <lili.z.zhang@intel.com>
Co-authored-by: Ferenc Fabian <qwer.kocka@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Haitao Huang <4699115+haitaohuang@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Li, Xun <xun.li@intel.com>

linux/reproducibility/ae_reproducibility_verifier/README.md, after:

Verify Intel(R) Prebuilt AE Reproducibility:
================================
---------

## Purpose
---
Since Intel(R) prebuilt AEs have been signed by Intel's private key, it's hard to verify AE reproduciblity by comparing your local AE builds with Intel AEs using "diff" command.  
So this doc will give an approach using your local AE builds to verify Intel(R) prebuilt AEs are:

* Built using same code and toolsets that being opensourced
* Signed using same config.xml that being opensourced


## Verify AE reproducibility
---
### Prequisites:
* <a id="materials">Prepare below 4 materials</a>

 1. intel_signed_ae:  
 It is the Intel(R) prebuilt AE to be verified, and can be downloaded from
 https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/latest/dcap-latest/linux/ (for ECDSA-based
 attestation) or https://download.01.org/intel-sgx/latest/linux-latest/.
 2. user_build_unsigned_ae:   
 The unsigned AE is built by yourself in an SGX docker container. You can follow the [reproducibility README.md](../README.md) to build all AEs in a container.
 3. user_private_key:  
 This private key is generated by yourself for signing user_build_unsigned_ae.
 4. intel_ae_config_xml:  
 It is the opensource enclave config.xml of Intel(R) prebuilt AE, and can be downloaded from Intel(R) SGX GitHub repo.


* Ensure Intel(R) SGX SDK is installed(https://github.com/intel/linux-sgx#install-the-intelr-sgx-sdk), and your environment is set:
    ```
    $ source ${sgx-sdk-install-path}/environment
    ```

### Detailed Steps:
You can either verify by the provided automated scripts [*reproducibility_verifier.sh*](reproducibility_verifier.sh), or by manual.

#### 1. Verify by running automated scripts (Recommended)
To see the usage, you can directly run *`$./reproducibility_verifier.sh`* without any arguments.   
To do verification, please follow below usage.  

##### Usage:
```
$ ./reproducibility_verifier.sh intel_signed_ae user_build_unsigned_ae user_private_key intel_ae_config_xml
```
##### Parameters:
The script MUST take four parameters in above order. For the parameters, please see the description [Prequisites: Prepare below 4 materials](#materials)

##### Outputs:
If the verification succeeds, you will see below info in command line window:

```
$ ./reproducibility_verifier.sh intel_signed_ae user_build_unsigned_ae user_private_key intel_ae_config_xml
...
Reproducibility Verification PASSED!

```
If the verification fails, you will see below info in command line window:

```
$ ./reproducibility_verifier.sh intel_signed_ae user_build_unsigned_ae user_private_key intel_ae_config_xml
...
Reproducibility Verification FAILED!
Please find the diff contents in output/metadata_diff.txt
```

Meanwhile, you can find the extracted intel & user metadata to be compared in  *./output/intel_metadata.txt* and *./output/user_metadata.txt*. 

#### 2. Verify by manual
1) Dump the whole enclave_metadata of intel_signed_ae, and then extract partial enclave_metadata to "intel_metadata.txt" excluding below fields:  
    "enclave_css.header.date, enclave_css.enclave_css.key.modulus, enclave_css.key.exponent, enclave_css.key.signature, enclave_css.buffer.q1, enclave_css.buffer.q2"

  ```
    # dump metadata
    $ {SGX_SDK}/bin/x64/sgx_sign dump -enclave intel_signed_ae -dumpfile intel_metadata_orig.txt
    
    # extract metadata
    $ sed -n '/metadata->magic_num/,/metadata->enclave_css.header.module_vendor/p;/metadata->enclave_css.header.header2/,/metadata->enclave_css.header.hw_version/p;/metadata->enclave_css.body.misc_select/,/metadata->enclave_css.body.isv_svn/p;' intel_metadata_orig.txt > intel_metadata.txt
  ```
2) Sign user_build_unsigned_ae with user_private_key and intel_ae_config_xml, and generate user_signed_ae.
  ```
    $ {SGX_SDK}/bin/x64/sgx_sign sign -enclave user_build_unsigned_ae -key user_private_key -config intel_ae_config_xml -out user_signed_ae
  ```
3) Dump the whole enclave_metadata of user_signed_a, and then extract partial enclave_metadata to "user_metadata.txt" excluding below fields:  
    "enclave_css.header.date, enclave_css.enclave_css.key.modulus, enclave_css.key.exponent, enclave_css.key.signature, enclave_css.buffer.q1, enclave_css.buffer.q2"


  ```
    # dump metadata
    $ {SGX_SDK}/bin/x64/sgx_sign dump -enclave intel_signed_ae -dumpfile intel_metadata_orig.txt
    
    # extract metadata
    $ sed -n '/metadata->magic_num/,/metadata->enclave_css.header.module_vendor/p;/metadata->enclave_css.header.header2/,/metadata->enclave_css.header.hw_version/p;/metadata->enclave_css.body.misc_select/,/metadata->enclave_css.body.isv_svn/p;' user_metadata_orig.txt > user_metadata.txt
  ```
4) Compare the content of intel_metadata.txt and user_metadata.txt. If the result is same, then the verification succeeds; otherwise, the verification fails.

```
    $ diff intel_metadata.txt user_metadata.txt
```
