SampleCode/SampleEnclavePCL/README.md, before:

Intel(R) Software Guard Extensions Protected Code Loader (Intel(R) SGX PCL) for Linux\* OS
================================================
Introduction
------------
Intel(R) SGX PCL is intended to protect Intellectual Property (IP) within the code for Intel(R) SGX enclave applications running on the Linux* OS.

**Problem:** Intel(R) SGX provides integrity of code and confidentiality and integrity of data at run-time. However, it does NOT provide confidentiality of code offline as a binary file on disk. Adversaries can reverse engineer the binary enclave shared object.

**Solution:** The enclave shared object (.so) is encrypted at build time. It is decrypted at enclave load time. 

Intel(R) SGX PCL provides: 
1. **sgx_encrypt:** A tool to encrypt the shared object at build time. 

   See sources at sdk\encrypt_enclave.
   
2. **libsgx_pcl.a:** A library that is statically linked to the enclave and enables the decryption of the enclave at load time.

   See sources at sdk\protected_code_loader.

3. **SampleEnclavePCL:** Sample code which demonstrates how the tool and lib need to be integrated into an existing enclave project. 

Purpose of this code sample:
--------------------------
Enclave writers should compare SampleEnclave and SampleEnclavePCL. This demonstrates how the Intel(R) SGX PCL is to be integrated into the project of the enclave writer.  

Build and test the Intel(R) SGX PCL with the sample code
--------------------------------------------------------
1. Install Intel(R) Software Guard Extensions (Intel(R) SGX) SDK for Linux* OS
2. Make sure your environment is set:
    $ source ${sgx-sdk-install-path}/environment
3. Build the project with the prepared Makefile:
    a. Hardware Mode, Debug build:
        $ make
    b. Hardware Mode, Pre-release build:
        $ make SGX_PRERELEASE=1 SGX_DEBUG=0
    c. Hardware Mode, Release build:
        $ make SGX_DEBUG=0
    d. Simulation Mode, Debug build:
        $ make SGX_MODE=SIM
    e. Simulation Mode, Pre-release build:
        $ make SGX_MODE=SIM SGX_PRERELEASE=1 SGX_DEBUG=0
    f. Simulation Mode, Release build:
        $ make SGX_MODE=SIM SGX_DEBUG=0
4. Execute the binary directly:
    $ ./app
5. Remember to "make clean" before switching build mode

-------------------------------------------------
Launch token initialization
-------------------------------------------------
If using libsgx-enclave-common or sgxpsw under version 2.4, an initialized variable launch_token needs to be passed as the 3rd parameter of API sgx_create_enclave. For example,

sgx_launch_token_t launch_token = {0};
sgx_create_enclave(ENCLAVE_FILENAME, SGX_DEBUG_FLAG, launch_token, NULL, &global_eid, NULL);

Commit message:

Updates for SGX 2.18 reproducible build.
Signed-off-by: Zhang Lili <lili.z.zhang@intel.com>

SampleCode/SampleEnclavePCL/README.md, after:

Intel(R) Software Guard Extensions Protected Code Loader (Intel(R) SGX PCL) for Linux\* OS
================================================
Introduction
------------
Intel(R) SGX PCL is intended to protect Intellectual Property (IP) within the code for Intel(R) SGX enclave applications running on the Linux* OS.

**Problem:** Intel(R) SGX provides integrity of code and confidentiality and integrity of data at run-time. However, it does NOT provide confidentiality of code offline as a binary file on disk. Adversaries can reverse engineer the binary enclave shared object.

**Solution:** The enclave shared object (.so) is encrypted at build time. It is decrypted at enclave load time. 

Intel(R) SGX PCL provides: 
1. **sgx_encrypt:** A tool to encrypt the shared object at build time. 

   See sources at sdk\encrypt_enclave.
   
2. **libsgx_pcl.a:** A library that is statically linked to the enclave and enables the decryption of the enclave at load time.

   See sources at sdk\protected_code_loader.

3. **SampleEnclavePCL:** Sample code which demonstrates how the tool and lib need to be integrated into an existing enclave project. 

Purpose of this code sample:
--------------------------
Enclave writers should compare SampleEnclave and SampleEnclavePCL. This demonstrates how the Intel(R) SGX PCL is to be integrated into the project of the enclave writer.  

Build and test the Intel(R) SGX PCL with the sample code
--------------------------------------------------------
1. Install Intel(R) Software Guard Extensions (Intel(R) SGX) SDK for Linux* OS
2. Enclave test key(two options):
    a. Install openssl first, then the project will generate a test key<Enclave_private_test.pem>/<Seal_private_test.pem> automatically when you build the project.
    b. Rename your test key(3072-bit RSA private key) to <Enclave_private_test.pem>/<Seal_private_test.pem> and put it under the <Enclave>/<Seal> folder.
2. Make sure your environment is set:
    $ source ${sgx-sdk-install-path}/environment
3. Build the project with the prepared Makefile:
    a. Hardware Mode, Debug build:
        $ make
    b. Hardware Mode, Pre-release build:
        $ make SGX_PRERELEASE=1 SGX_DEBUG=0
    c. Hardware Mode, Release build:
        $ make SGX_DEBUG=0
    d. Simulation Mode, Debug build:
        $ make SGX_MODE=SIM
    e. Simulation Mode, Pre-release build:
        $ make SGX_MODE=SIM SGX_PRERELEASE=1 SGX_DEBUG=0
    f. Simulation Mode, Release build:
        $ make SGX_MODE=SIM SGX_DEBUG=0
4. Execute the binary directly:
    $ ./app
5. Remember to "make clean" before switching build mode

-------------------------------------------------
Launch token initialization
-------------------------------------------------
If using libsgx-enclave-common or sgxpsw under version 2.4, an initialized variable launch_token needs to be passed as the 3rd parameter of API sgx_create_enclave. For example,

sgx_launch_token_t launch_token = {0};
sgx_create_enclave(ENCLAVE_FILENAME, SGX_DEBUG_FLAG, launch_token, NULL, &global_eid, NULL);
