docker/build/README.md, before:

# Build and run with Docker

Files in this directory demonstrate how to build and install the SGX SDK and PSW, and run SGX applications in Docker containers.

## Quick Start

###  Prerequisites
1. Install [Docker and Compose](https://docs.docker.com/) and configure them properly following their respective installation guide.
2. Install [SGX out-of-tree driver](https://github.com/intel/linux-sgx-driver). **Note**: See below to run with the DCAP driver or an SGX capable kernel.

### Run with Docker Compose
This will start AESM and an SGX sample on one terminal using docker-compose.
```
$ ./build_compose_run.sh
```

### Run with Docker directly

Alternatively, you can run AESM and SGX sample containers in two separate terminals.

In one terminal,
```
$ ./build_and_run_aesm_docker.sh
```
In another terminal,
```
$ ./build_and_run_sample_docker.sh
```

## Dockerfile

The Dockerfile specifies 3 image build targets:
1. builder: Builds PSW and SDK bin installers from source. This requires downloading the prebuilt AEs and optimized libs from 01.org.
2. aesm: Takes the PSW installer from builder to install and run the AESM deamon.
3. sample: Installs the SDK installer from builder, then builds and runs the SampleEnclave app

- [build_and_run_aesm_docker.sh](./build_and_run_aesm_docker.sh): Shows how to build and run the AESM image in Docker. This will start the AESM service listening to a named socket, mounted in /var/run/aesmd in the container from the host /tmp/aesmd.

- [build_and_run_sample_docker.sh](./build_and_run_sample_docker.sh): Shows how to build and run the SampleEnclave app inside a Docker container with a locally built SGX sample image.

## DCAP driver and kernel with SGX patches

All SGX applications need access to the SGX device nodes exposed by the kernel space driver. Depending on the driver or kernel you are using, the SGX device nodes may have different names and locations. Therefore, you need to ensure those nodes are mapped and mounted inside the containers properly.

[SGX kernel patches](https://github.com/jsakkine-intel/linux-sgx/commits/master) are still in process of upstreaming.
The [DCAP driver](https://github.com/intel/SGXDataCenterAttestationPrimitives/tree/master/driver) is developed to imitate the kernel patches as closely as possible. To use a custom built kernel with SGX patches or the DCAP driver instead of the SGX2 driver mentioned above, you need to make following modifications:
1. Replace "/dev/isgx" device with "/dev/sgx/enclave" and "/dev/sgx/provision" devices for AESM in docker-compose.yml and build_and_run_aesm_docker.sh
2. Replace "/dev/isgx" with "/dev/sgx/enclave" for the sample container in docker-compose.yml and build_and_run_sample_docker.sh

**Note**: When you switch between DCAP and SGX2 drivers, make sure you uninstall the previous driver and reset the OS before installing the other one.

**Note**: Earlier versions of the DCAP driver and kernel patches may expose the SGX device as a single node at "/dev/sgx".

Commit message:

Update docker files to use the FLC driver as default
Signed-off-by: Haitao Huang <4699115+haitaohuang@users.noreply.github.com>

docker/build/README.md, after:

# Build and run with Docker

Files in this directory demonstrate how to build and install the SGX SDK and PSW, and run SGX applications in Docker containers.

## Quick Start

###  Prerequisites
1. Install [Docker and Compose](https://docs.docker.com/) and configure them properly following their respective installation guide.
2. Install [SGX Flexible Launch Control driver](https://github.com/intel/SGXDataCenterAttestationPrimitives/driver/linux). **Note**: See below to run with the Legacy Launch Control driver.

### Run with Docker Compose
This will start AESM and an SGX sample on one terminal using docker-compose.
```
$ ./build_compose_run.sh
```

### Run with Docker directly

Alternatively, you can run AESM and SGX sample containers in two separate terminals.

In one terminal,
```
$ ./build_and_run_aesm_docker.sh
```
In another terminal,
```
$ ./build_and_run_sample_docker.sh
```

## Dockerfile

The Dockerfile specifies 3 image build targets:
1. builder: Builds PSW and SDK bin installers from source. This requires downloading the prebuilt AEs and optimized libs from 01.org.
2. aesm: Takes the PSW installer from builder to install and run the AESM deamon.
3. sample: Installs the SDK installer from builder, then builds and runs the SampleEnclave app

- [build_and_run_aesm_docker.sh](./build_and_run_aesm_docker.sh): Shows how to build and run the AESM image in Docker. This will start the AESM service listening to a named socket, mounted in /var/run/aesmd in the container from the host /tmp/aesmd.

- [build_and_run_sample_docker.sh](./build_and_run_sample_docker.sh): Shows how to build and run the SampleEnclave app inside a Docker container with a locally built SGX sample image.

## Legacy Launch Control driver and kernel for SGX

All SGX applications need access to the SGX device nodes exposed by the kernel space driver. Depending on the driver or kernel you are using, the SGX device nodes may have different names and locations. Therefore, you need to ensure those nodes are mapped and mounted inside the containers properly.


[SGX kernel patches](https://github.com/jsakkine-intel/linux-sgx/commits/master) are still in process of upstreaming.
The [Flexible Launch Control driver](https://github.com/intel/SGXDataCenterAttestationPrimitives/tree/master/driver) is developed to imitate the kernel patches as closely as possible.

The sample scripts and Compose files are compatible with the Flexible Launch Control driver or a custom built kernel with SGX support. If you need to use the Legacy Launch Control driver then you need to make following modifications:
1. Replace "/dev/sgx/enclave" device with "/dev/isgx" and **remove** "/dev/sgx/provision" device for AESM in docker-compose.yml and build_and_run_aesm_docker.sh
2. Replace "/dev/sgx/enclave" with "/dev/isgx" for the sample container in docker-compose.yml and build_and_run_sample_docker.sh

**Note**: When you switch between drivers, make sure you uninstall the previous driver and reset the OS before installing the other one.

**Note**: Earlier versions of the Flexible Launch Control driver and kernel patches may expose the SGX device as a single node at "/dev/sgx".
